solr/solr-ref-guide/modules/configuration-guide/pages/cluster-plugins.adoc, before:

= Cluster Plugins
:toc: macro
:toclevels: 3
// Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
// or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
// distributed with this work for additional information
// regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
// to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
// "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
// with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
//
//   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
//
// Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
// software distributed under the License is distributed on an
// "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
// KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
// specific language governing permissions and limitations
// under the License.

== Cluster (CoreContainer-level) Plugins Subsystem
Cluster plugins are pluggable components that are defined and instantiated at the `CoreContainer` (node) level.
These components usually provide admin-level functionality and APIs for additional functionality at the Solr node level.

=== Plugin Configurations
Plugin configurations are maintained using `/cluster/plugin` API.

This API endpoint allows adding, removing and updating plugin configurations.

Each plugin MUST have a unique name under which it's registered.
Attempting to add a plugin with a duplicate name is an error.
Some types of plugins use pre-defined names, and they MUST be registered under these names in order to properly function.

Internally, as of Solr 9.0 plugin configurations are maintained in ZooKeeper in the `/clusterprops.json` file, under the `plugin` entry.
The configuration is a JSON map where keys are the unique plugin names, and values are serialized `org.apache.solr.client.solrj.request.beans.PluginMeta` beans.

The following common plugin properties are supported:

`name`::
+
[%autowidth,frame=none]
|===
s|Required |Default: none
|===
+
A unique plugin name.
Some plugin types require using one of the pre-defined names to properly function.
By convention such predefined names use a leading-dot prefix (e.g., `.placement-plugin`).

`class`::
+
[%autowidth,frame=none]
|===
s|Required |Default: none
|===
+
The implementation class.
This can be specified as a fully-qualified class name if the class is available as a part of Solr, or it can be also specified using the `<package>:<className>` syntax to refer to a class inside one of the Solr packages.

`version`::
+
[%autowidth,frame=none]
|===
|Optional |Default: none
|===
+
Solr package version.
+
This parameter is required when the class is loaded from a package and not from Solr itself.

`path-prefix`::
+
[%autowidth,frame=none]
|===
|Optional |Default: `none`
|===
+
A Path prefix to be added to the REST API endpoints defined in the plugin.

`config`::
+
[%autowidth,frame=none]
|===
|Optional |Default: `none`
|===
+
A JSON map of additional plugin configuration parameters.
Plugins that implement `ConfigurablePlugin` interface will be initialized with a
plugin-specific configuration object deserialized from this map.

Example plugin configuration:

[source,bash]
----
curl -X POST -H 'Content-type: application/json' -d '{
    "add":{
        "name": ".placement-plugin",
        "class": "org.apache.solr.cluster.placement.plugins.AffinityPlacementFactory",
        "config": {
          "minimalFreeDiskGB": 20,
          "prioritizedFreeDiskGB": 100,
          "withCollection": {
            "A_primary": "A_secondary",
            "B_primary": "B_secondary"
          }
        }
    }}'
  http://localhost:8983/api/cluster/plugin
----

=== Types of Cluster Plugins
Classes loaded from plugins in general support two types of functionality (not mutually exclusive):

* request handler plugins that expose REST API endpoints (the implementing class is annotated with `@EndPoint` and optionally `@Command` annotations).
The APIs of these plugins are automatically registered as REST endpoints under the paths defined in the `@EndPoint` annotations.

* plugins that implement a specific interface, for use as an internal component.
Upon loading they are automatically discovered and registered with sub-systems that use this type of plugin.
Examples here include the `ClusterSingleton`, `ClusterEventProducer`, `ClusterEventListener` and `PlacementPluginFactory`.

=== Plugin Lifecycle
Plugin instances are loaded and initialized when Solr's `CoreContainer` is first created during Solr node start-up.

Then on each update of the configurations each node is notified about the change, and then the existing plugins are compared with the new configs, and plugin instances present on the node are respectively created, removed, or replaced (i.e., removed and added using the new configuration).

In practice this means that cluster-level plugins managed by this API can be
dynamically changed and reconfigured without restarting the Solr nodes, and the changes apply to all nodes nearly simultaneously.

== Plugin Types

=== Predefined Plugin Names

Plugins with these names are used in specific parts of Solr.
Their names are reserved and cannot be used for other plugin types:

* `.placement-plugin`: A plugin that implements `PlacementPluginFactory` interface.
This type of plugin determines the replica placement strategy in the cluster.

* `.cluster-event-producer`: A plugin that implements `ClusterEventProducer` interface.
This type of plugin is used for generating cluster-level events.

=== PlacementPluginFactory Plugins

This type of plugin supports configurable placement strategies for collection
replicas.

=== ClusterSingleton Plugins

Plugins that implement `ClusterSingleton` interface are instantiated on each
Solr node.
However, their start/stop life-cycle, as defined in the interface, is controlled in such a way that only a single running instance of the plugin is present in the cluster at any time.

(Currently this is implemented by re-using the Overseer leader election, so all
`ClusterSingleton`-s that are in the RUNNING state execute on the Overseer leader node).

Any plugin can implement this interface to indicate to Solr that
it requires this cluster singleton behavior.

`ClusterSingleton` plugins can also be configured by declaring them in xref:configuring-solr-xml.adoc[solr.xml].

=== ClusterEventProducer Plugins

In order to support the generation of cluster-level events an implementation of
`ClusterEventProducer` is created on each Solr node.
This component is also a `ClusterSingleton`, which means that only one active instance is present in the
cluster at any time.

If no plugin configuration is specified then the default implementation
`org.apache.solr.cluster.events.impl.NoOpProducer` is used, which doesn't generate any events - this means that by default event generation is turned off.
An implementation that supports node and collection event generation is also available in `org.apache.solr.cluster.events.impl.DefaultClusterEventProducer`.

Event producer configuration can be changed dynamically by changing the predefined plugin configuration, for example:

[source,bash]
----
curl -X POST -H 'Content-type: application/json' -d '{
    "add":{
        "name": ".cluster-event-producer",
        "class": "org.apache.solr.cluster.events.impl.DefaultClusterEventProducer"
    }}'
  http://localhost:8983/api/cluster/plugin
----

It can be restored to the default no-op configuration by simply removing the plugin:

[source,bash]
----
curl -X POST -H 'Content-type: application/json' -d '{
    "remove": ".cluster-event-producer"
  }'
  http://localhost:8983/api/cluster/plugin
----

=== ClusterEventListener Plugins

Plugins that implement the `ClusterEventListener` interface will be automatically registered with the instance of `ClusterEventProducer`.

// XXX edit this once SOLR-14977 is done
Implementations will be notified of all events that are generated by the
`ClusterEventProducer` and need to select only events that they are interested in.

==== org.apache.solr.cluster.events.impl.CollectionsRepairEventListener

An implementation of listener that reacts to NODE_LOST events and checks what replicas need to be re-added to other nodes to keep the replication counts the same as before.

This implementation waits for a certain period (default is 30s) to make sure the node is really down.
For the replicas located on nodes that were down sufficiently long it generates appropriate ADDREPLICA commands to counter-balance the lost replicas on these nodes.

Example plugin configuration:

[source,bash]
----
curl -X POST -H 'Content-type: application/json' -d '{
    "add":{
        "name": "collections-repair-listener",
        "class": "org.apache.solr.cluster.events.impl.CollectionsRepairEventListener"
    }}'
  http://localhost:8983/api/cluster/plugin
----

== Plugin Management API

=== List Plugins

This command uses HTTP GET and returns a list of loaded plugins and their configurations:

[source,bash]
----
curl http://localhost:8983/api/cluster/plugin
----

=== Add Plugin

This command uses HTTP POST to add a new plugin configuration.
If a plugin with the same name already exists this results in an error.

Example command, which adds a plugin contained in a Solr package:
[source,bash]
----
curl -X POST -H 'Content-type: application/json' -d '{
    "add":{
        "name": "my-plugin1",
        "class": "my-package:com.example.MyPlugin",
        "version": "1.0"
    }}'
  http://localhost:8983/api/cluster/plugin
----

=== Update Plugin

This command uses HTTP POST to update an existing plugin configuration.
If a plugin with this name doesn't exist this results in an error.

This example updates an existing plugin, possibly changing its configuration parameters.
The old instance of the plugin is removed and a new instance is created using the supplied configuration.

[source,bash]
----
curl -X POST -H 'Content-type: application/json' -d '{
    "update":{
        "name": "collections-repair-listener",
        "class": "org.apache.solr.cluster.events.impl.CollectionsRepairEventListener",
        "config":{
          "waitForSecond": 30
    }}}'
  http://localhost:8983/api/cluster/plugin
----

=== Remove Plugin

This command uses HTTP POST to delete an existing plugin configuration.
If a plugin with this name doesn't exist this results in an error.

Unlike other commands the command payload here consists just of the name of the plugin to remove, as a string.

[source,bash]
----
curl -X POST -H 'Content-type: application/json' -d '{
    "remove": "my-plugin1"
    }'
  http://localhost:8983/api/cluster/plugin
----

Commit message:

Add validation & determine cluster plugin source using disable.configEdit property

solr/solr-ref-guide/modules/configuration-guide/pages/cluster-plugins.adoc, after:

= Cluster Plugins
:toc: macro
:toclevels: 3
// Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
// or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
// distributed with this work for additional information
// regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
// to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
// "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
// with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
//
//   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
//
// Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
// software distributed under the License is distributed on an
// "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
// KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
// specific language governing permissions and limitations
// under the License.

== Cluster (CoreContainer-level) Plugins Subsystem
Cluster plugins are pluggable components that are defined and instantiated at the `CoreContainer` (node) level.
These components usually provide admin-level functionality and APIs for additional functionality at the Solr node level.

=== Plugin Configurations
If the `disable.configEdit` property is set to false, then plugin configurations can be maintained using `/cluster/plugin` API.

This API endpoint allows adding, removing and updating plugin configurations.

Each plugin MUST have a unique name under which it's registered.
Attempting to add a plugin with a duplicate name is an error.
Some types of plugins use pre-defined names, and they MUST be registered under these names in order to properly function.

Internally, as of Solr 9.0 plugin configurations are maintained in ZooKeeper in the `/clusterprops.json` file, under the `plugin` entry.
The configuration is a JSON map where keys are the unique plugin names, and values are serialized `org.apache.solr.client.solrj.request.beans.PluginMeta` beans.

The following common plugin properties are supported:

`name`::
+
[%autowidth,frame=none]
|===
s|Required |Default: none
|===
+
A unique plugin name.
Some plugin types require using one of the pre-defined names to properly function.
By convention such predefined names use a leading-dot prefix (e.g., `.placement-plugin`).

`class`::
+
[%autowidth,frame=none]
|===
s|Required |Default: none
|===
+
The implementation class.
This can be specified as a fully-qualified class name if the class is available as a part of Solr, or it can be also specified using the `<package>:<className>` syntax to refer to a class inside one of the Solr packages.

`version`::
+
[%autowidth,frame=none]
|===
|Optional |Default: none
|===
+
Solr package version.
+
This parameter is required when the class is loaded from a package and not from Solr itself.

`path-prefix`::
+
[%autowidth,frame=none]
|===
|Optional |Default: `none`
|===
+
A Path prefix to be added to the REST API endpoints defined in the plugin.

`config`::
+
[%autowidth,frame=none]
|===
|Optional |Default: `none`
|===
+
A JSON map of additional plugin configuration parameters.
Plugins that implement `ConfigurablePlugin` interface will be initialized with a
plugin-specific configuration object deserialized from this map.

Example plugin configuration:

[source,bash]
----
curl -X POST -H 'Content-type: application/json' -d '{
    "add":{
        "name": ".placement-plugin",
        "class": "org.apache.solr.cluster.placement.plugins.AffinityPlacementFactory",
        "config": {
          "minimalFreeDiskGB": 20,
          "prioritizedFreeDiskGB": 100,
          "withCollection": {
            "A_primary": "A_secondary",
            "B_primary": "B_secondary"
          }
        }
    }}'
  http://localhost:8983/api/cluster/plugin
----

=== Types of Cluster Plugins
Classes loaded from plugins in general support two types of functionality (not mutually exclusive):

* request handler plugins that expose REST API endpoints (the implementing class is annotated with `@EndPoint` and optionally `@Command` annotations).
The APIs of these plugins are automatically registered as REST endpoints under the paths defined in the `@EndPoint` annotations.

* plugins that implement a specific interface, for use as an internal component.
Upon loading they are automatically discovered and registered with sub-systems that use this type of plugin.
Examples here include the `ClusterSingleton`, `ClusterEventProducer`, `ClusterEventListener` and `PlacementPluginFactory`.

=== Plugin Lifecycle
Plugin instances are loaded and initialized when Solr's `CoreContainer` is first created during Solr node start-up.

Then on each update of the configurations each node is notified about the change, and then the existing plugins are compared with the new configs, and plugin instances present on the node are respectively created, removed, or replaced (i.e., removed and added using the new configuration).

In practice this means that cluster-level plugins managed by this API can be
dynamically changed and reconfigured without restarting the Solr nodes, and the changes apply to all nodes nearly simultaneously.

== Plugin Types

=== Predefined Plugin Names

Plugins with these names are used in specific parts of Solr.
Their names are reserved and cannot be used for other plugin types:

* `.placement-plugin`: A plugin that implements `PlacementPluginFactory` interface.
This type of plugin determines the replica placement strategy in the cluster.

* `.cluster-event-producer`: A plugin that implements `ClusterEventProducer` interface.
This type of plugin is used for generating cluster-level events.

=== PlacementPluginFactory Plugins

This type of plugin supports configurable placement strategies for collection
replicas.

=== ClusterSingleton Plugins

Plugins that implement `ClusterSingleton` interface are instantiated on each
Solr node.
However, their start/stop life-cycle, as defined in the interface, is controlled in such a way that only a single running instance of the plugin is present in the cluster at any time.

(Currently this is implemented by re-using the Overseer leader election, so all
`ClusterSingleton`-s that are in the RUNNING state execute on the Overseer leader node).

Any plugin can implement this interface to indicate to Solr that
it requires this cluster singleton behavior.

`ClusterSingleton` plugins can also be configured by declaring them in xref:configuring-solr-xml.adoc[solr.xml].

=== ClusterEventProducer Plugins

In order to support the generation of cluster-level events an implementation of
`ClusterEventProducer` is created on each Solr node.
This component is also a `ClusterSingleton`, which means that only one active instance is present in the
cluster at any time.

If no plugin configuration is specified then the default implementation
`org.apache.solr.cluster.events.impl.NoOpProducer` is used, which doesn't generate any events - this means that by default event generation is turned off.
An implementation that supports node and collection event generation is also available in `org.apache.solr.cluster.events.impl.DefaultClusterEventProducer`.

Event producer configuration can be changed dynamically by changing the predefined plugin configuration, for example:

[source,bash]
----
curl -X POST -H 'Content-type: application/json' -d '{
    "add":{
        "name": ".cluster-event-producer",
        "class": "org.apache.solr.cluster.events.impl.DefaultClusterEventProducer"
    }}'
  http://localhost:8983/api/cluster/plugin
----

It can be restored to the default no-op configuration by simply removing the plugin:

[source,bash]
----
curl -X POST -H 'Content-type: application/json' -d '{
    "remove": ".cluster-event-producer"
  }'
  http://localhost:8983/api/cluster/plugin
----

=== ClusterEventListener Plugins

Plugins that implement the `ClusterEventListener` interface will be automatically registered with the instance of `ClusterEventProducer`.

// XXX edit this once SOLR-14977 is done
Implementations will be notified of all events that are generated by the
`ClusterEventProducer` and need to select only events that they are interested in.

==== org.apache.solr.cluster.events.impl.CollectionsRepairEventListener

An implementation of listener that reacts to NODE_LOST events and checks what replicas need to be re-added to other nodes to keep the replication counts the same as before.

This implementation waits for a certain period (default is 30s) to make sure the node is really down.
For the replicas located on nodes that were down sufficiently long it generates appropriate ADDREPLICA commands to counter-balance the lost replicas on these nodes.

Example plugin configuration:

[source,bash]
----
curl -X POST -H 'Content-type: application/json' -d '{
    "add":{
        "name": "collections-repair-listener",
        "class": "org.apache.solr.cluster.events.impl.CollectionsRepairEventListener"
    }}'
  http://localhost:8983/api/cluster/plugin
----

== Plugin Management API

=== List Plugins

This command uses HTTP GET and returns a list of loaded plugins and their configurations:

[source,bash]
----
curl http://localhost:8983/api/cluster/plugin
----

=== Add Plugin

This command uses HTTP POST to add a new plugin configuration.
If a plugin with the same name already exists this results in an error.

Example command, which adds a plugin contained in a Solr package:
[source,bash]
----
curl -X POST -H 'Content-type: application/json' -d '{
    "add":{
        "name": "my-plugin1",
        "class": "my-package:com.example.MyPlugin",
        "version": "1.0"
    }}'
  http://localhost:8983/api/cluster/plugin
----

=== Update Plugin

This command uses HTTP POST to update an existing plugin configuration.
If a plugin with this name doesn't exist this results in an error.

This example updates an existing plugin, possibly changing its configuration parameters.
The old instance of the plugin is removed and a new instance is created using the supplied configuration.

[source,bash]
----
curl -X POST -H 'Content-type: application/json' -d '{
    "update":{
        "name": "collections-repair-listener",
        "class": "org.apache.solr.cluster.events.impl.CollectionsRepairEventListener",
        "config":{
          "waitForSecond": 30
    }}}'
  http://localhost:8983/api/cluster/plugin
----

=== Remove Plugin

This command uses HTTP POST to delete an existing plugin configuration.
If a plugin with this name doesn't exist this results in an error.

Unlike other commands the command payload here consists just of the name of the plugin to remove, as a string.

[source,bash]
----
curl -X POST -H 'Content-type: application/json' -d '{
    "remove": "my-plugin1"
    }'
  http://localhost:8983/api/cluster/plugin
----
