solr/solr-ref-guide/modules/configuration-guide/pages/requesthandlers-searchcomponents.adoc, before:

= Request Handlers and Search Components
// Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
// or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
// distributed with this work for additional information
// regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
// to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
// "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
// with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
//
//   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
//
// Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
// software distributed under the License is distributed on an
// "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
// KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
// specific language governing permissions and limitations
// under the License.

After the `<query>` section of `solrconfig.xml`, request handlers and search components are configured.

A _request handler_ processes requests coming to Solr.
These might be query requests, index update requests or specialized interactions such as xref:deployment-guide:ping.adoc[].

Not all handlers are defined explicitly in `solrconfig.xml`, many are defined implicitly.
See xref:implicit-requesthandlers.adoc[] for details.

Additionally, handlers can be defined or overridden in `configoverlay.json` by using xref:config-api.adoc[].
Finally, independent parameter sets can be also defined by xref:request-parameters-api.adoc[].
They will be stored in `params.json` file and referenced with <<paramsets-and-useparams,useParams>>.

All of this multi-layered configuration can be verified via xref:config-api.adoc[].

Defining your own config handlers is often a useful way to provide defaults and advanced configuration to support business cases and simplify client API.
At the same time, using every single option explained in this guide, will most certainly cause some confusion about which parameter is actually used when.

== Defining and Calling Request Handlers

Every request handler is defined with a name and a class.
The name of the request handler is referenced with the request to Solr, typically as a path.
For example, if Solr is installed at `\http://localhost:8983/solr/`, and you have a collection named "gettingstarted", you can make a request that looks like this:

[source,text]
----
http://localhost:8983/solr/gettingstarted/select?q=solr
----

This query will be processed by the request handler with the name `/select`.
We've only used the "q" parameter here, which includes our query term, a simple keyword of "solr".
If the request handler has more default parameters defined, those will be used with any query we send to that request handler unless they are overridden by the client (or user) in the query itself.

If you have another request handler defined, you could send your request with that name.
For example, `/update` is an implicit request handler that handles index updates (i.e., sending new documents to the index).
By default, `/select` is a request handler that handles query requests and one expected by most examples and tools.

Request handlers can also process requests for nested paths in their names,
for example, a request using `/myhandler/extrapath` may be processed by a request handler registered with the name `/myhandler`.
If a request handler is explicitly defined by the name `/myhandler/extrapath`, that would take precedence over the nested path.
This assumes you are using the request handler classes included with Solr; if you create your own request handler,
you should make sure it includes the ability to handle nested paths if you want to use them with your custom request handler.

If a request handler is not expected to be used very often, it can be marked with `startup="lazy"` to avoid loading until needed.

[source,xml]
----
<requestHandler name="/spell" class="solr.SearchHandler" startup="lazy">
 ...
</requestHandler>
----

== Configuring Request Handlers
There are 3 ways to configure request handlers inside their definitions and another 3 ways to configure them somewhere else.

=== Request Parameters (GET and POST)
The easiest and most flexible way is to provide parameters with standard GET or POST requests.

Here is an example of sending parameters `id`, `fl`, and `wt` to `/select` Search Handler.
Notice the URL-encoded space (as +) for the values of `fl` parameter.

[source,text]
----
http://localhost:8983/solr/techproducts/select?q=id:SP2514N&fl=id+name&wt=xml
----

The following is an example of parameters being sent through the POST form to `/query` Search Handler using the xref:query-guide:json-request-api.adoc[].

[source,bash]
----
curl http://localhost:8983/solr/techproducts/query -d '
{
  "query" : "memory",
  "filter" : "inStock:true"
}'
----

Either way, the parameters are extracted and combined with other options explained below.

=== Defaults, Appends, and Invariants

==== Defaults

The most common way to configure request handlers is by providing `defaults` section.
The parameters there are used unless they are overridden by any other method.

[source,xml]
----
<requestHandler name="/select" class="solr.SearchHandler">
  <lst name="defaults">
    <str name="echoParams">explicit</str>
    <int name="rows">10</int>
  </lst>
</requestHandler>
----

This example defined a useful troubleshooting parameter xref:query-guide:common-query-parameters.adoc#echoparams-parameter[echoParams], with value that returns only params defined in the request itself (no defaults), set it to `all` for more information.
It also defines the `rows` parameter, with how many results to return (per page) (10 is a true default actually, so this is a redundant definition, if you are not going to modify it).

Note also that the way the defaults are defined in the list varies if the parameter is a string, an integer, or another type.

Here is how some other primitive types are represented:

[source,xml]
----
  <lst name="defaults">
    <float name="hl.regex.slop">0.5</float>
    <bool name="default">true</bool>
  </lst>
----

Other specialized types may exist, they would be explained in the sections for relevant components.

==== Appends

In the `appends` section, you can define parameters that are added those already defined elsewhere.
These are useful when the same parameter may be meaningfully defined multiple times, such as for xref:query-guide:common-query-parameters.adoc#fq-filter-query-parameter[filter queries].
There is no mechanism in Solr to allow a client to override these additions, so you should be absolutely sure you always want these parameters applied to queries.

[source,xml]
----
<lst name="appends">
  <str name="fq">inStock:true</str>
</lst>
----

In this example, the filter query `inStock:true` will always be added to every query, enforcing that only available "products" are returned.

==== Invariants

In the `invariants` section, you can define parameters that cannot be overridden by a client.
The values defined in the `invariants` section will always be used regardless of the values specified by the user, by the client, in `defaults` or in `appends`.


[source,xml]
----
<lst name="invariants">
  <str name="facet.field">cat</str>
  <str name="facet.field">manu_exact</str>
  <str name="facet.query">price:[* TO 500]</str>
  <str name="facet.query">price:[500 TO *]</str>
</lst>
----

In this example, the `facet.field` and `facet.query` params would be fixed, limiting the facets clients can use.
Faceting is not turned on by default - but if the client does specify  `facet=true` in the request,
these are the only facets they will be able to see counts for; regardless of what other `facet.field` or `facet.query` params they may specify.

=== InitParams
It is also possible to configure defaults for request handlers with a section called `initParams`.
These defaults can be used when you want to have common properties that will be used by each separate handler.
For example, if you intend to create several request handlers that will all request the same list of fields in the response, you can configure an `initParams` section with your list of fields.
For more information about `initParams`, see the section xref:initparams.adoc[].

=== Paramsets and UseParams
If you are expecting to change the parameters often, or if you want define sets of parameters that you can apply on the fly,
you can define them with xref:request-parameters-api.adoc[] and then invoke them
by providing one or more in `useParams` setting either in the handler definition itself or as a query parameter.

[source,xml]
----
<requestHandler name="/terms" class="solr.SearchHandler" useParams="myQueries">

...
</requestHandler>
----

[source,text]
----
http://localhost/solr/techproducts/select?useParams=myFacets,myQueries
----

If a paramset is called but is not defined, it is ignored.
This allows most xref:implicit-requesthandlers.adoc[] to call specific paramsets that you can define later, as needed.


== Search Handlers

Search Handlers are very important to Solr, as the data is indexed (roughly) once but is searched many times.
The whole design of Solr (and Lucene) is optimising data for searching and Search Handler is a flexible gateway to that.

The following sections are allowed within a Search Handler:

[source,xml]
----
<requestHandler name="/select" class="solr.SearchHandler">
... defaults/appends/invariants
... first-components/last-components or components
... shardHandlerFactory
</requestHandler>
----

All the blocks are optional, especially since parameters can also be provided with `initParams` and `useParams`.

The defaults/appends/invariants blocks were described earlier in <<defaults-appends-and-invariants>>.
All query parameters can be defined as parameters for any of the Search Handlers.

The Search Components blocks are described next, and xref:deployment-guide:solrcloud-distributed-requests.adoc#configuring-the-shardhandlerfactory[shardHandlerFactory] is for fine-tuning of the SolrCloud distributed requests.

=== Defining Search Components
The search components themselves are defined outside of the Request Handlers and then are referenced from various Search Handlers that want to use them.
Most Search Handlers use the default - implicit - stack of Search Components and only sometimes need to augment them with additional components prepended or appended.
It is quite rare - and somewhat brittle - to completely override the component stack, though it is used in examples to clearly demonstrate the effect of a specific Search Component.

==== Default Components

As you can see below, what we see as a search experience is mostly a sequence of components defined below.
They are called in the order listed.

[cols="20,40,40",options="header"]
|===
|Component Name |Class Name |More Information
|query |`solr.QueryComponent` |Described in the section xref:query-guide:query-syntax-and-parsers.adoc[].
|facet |`solr.FacetComponent` |Original parameter-based facet component, described in the section xref:query-guide:faceting.adoc[].
|facet_module |`solr.facet.FacetModule` | JSON Faceting and Analytics module, described in the section xref:query-guide:json-facet-api.adoc[].
|mlt |`solr.MoreLikeThisComponent` |Described in the section xref:query-guide:morelikethis.adoc[].
|highlight |`solr.HighlightComponent` |Described in the section xref:query-guide:highlighting.adoc[].
|stats |`solr.StatsComponent` |Described in the section xref:query-guide:stats-component.adoc[].
|expand |`solr.ExpandComponent` |Described in the section xref:query-guide:collapse-and-expand-results.adoc[].
|terms |`solr.TermsComponent` |Described in the section xref:query-guide:terms-component.adoc[].
|debug |`solr.DebugComponent` |Described in the section on xref:query-guide:common-query-parameters.adoc#debug-parameter[debug Parameter].
|===

==== Shipped Custom Components
Apart from default components, Solr ships with a number of additional - very useful - components.
They do need to defined and referenced in `solrconfig.xml` to be actually used.

* `ClusteringComponent`, described in the section xref:query-guide:result-clustering.adoc[].
* `PhrasesIdentificationComponent`, used to identify & score "phrases" found in the input string, based on shingles in indexed fields, described in the {solr-javadocs}/core/org/apache/solr/handler/component/PhrasesIdentificationComponent.html[PhrasesIdentificationComponent] javadocs.
* `QueryElevationComponent`, described in the section xref:query-guide:query-elevation-component.adoc[].
* `RealTimeGetComponent`, described in the section xref:realtime-get.adoc[].
* `ResponseLogComponent`, used to record which documents are returned to the user via the Solr log, described in the {solr-javadocs}/core/org/apache/solr/handler/component/ResponseLogComponent.html[ResponseLogComponent] javadocs.
* `SpellCheckComponent`, described in the section xref:query-guide:spell-checking.adoc[].
* `SuggestComponent`, described in the section xref:query-guide:suggester.adoc[].
* `TermVectorComponent`, described in the section xref:query-guide:term-vector-component.adoc[].

Some third party components are also linked from https://solr.cool/ website.

==== Defining Custom Search Components
To define custom component, the syntax is:

[source,xml]
----
<searchComponent name="spellcheck" class="solr.SpellCheckComponent">
  <lst name="spellchecker">
    <str name="classname">solr.IndexBasedSpellChecker</str>
    ...
  </lst>
</searchComponent>
----

Custom components often have configuration elements not described here.
Check specific component's documentation/examples for details.

Notice: If you register a new search component with one of the default names, the newly defined component will be used instead of the default.
This allows to override a specific component, while not having to worry so much about upgrading Solr.

=== Referencing Search Components

It's possible to define some components as being used before (with `first-components`) or after (with `last-components`) the default components listed above.

[source,xml]
----
<searchComponent name="..." class="...">
 <arr name="first-components">
      <str>mycomponent</str>
    </arr>
    <arr name="last-components">
      <str>spellcheck</str>
    </arr>
</searchComponent>
----

NOTE: The component registered with the name "debug" will always be executed after the "last-components"

If you define `components` instead, the <<default-components>> will not be executed, and `first-components` and `last-components` are disallowed.
This should be considered as a last-resort option as the default list may change in a later Solr version.

[source,xml]
----
<searchComponent name="..." class="...">
    <arr name="components">
      <str>mycomponent</str>
      <str>query</str>
      <str>debug</str>
    </arr>
</searchComponent>
----


== Update Request Handlers

The Update Request Handlers are request handlers which process updates to the index.
Most of the available update request handlers are xref:implicit-requesthandlers.adoc#update-handlers[implicit] and can be customized by defining properly named Paramsets.

If you need to define additional Update Request Handler, the syntax is:

[source,xml]
----
<requestHandler name="/update/json" class="solr.UpdateRequestHandler">
... defaults/appends/invariants
</requestHandler>

----

The full details are covered in the section xref:indexing-guide:indexing-with-update-handlers.adoc[].

Similar to Search Components for Search Handlers, Solr has document-preprocessing plugins for Update Request Handlers,
called xref:update-request-processors.adoc[],
which also allow for default and custom configuration chains.

Note: Do not confuse Update Request Handlers with xref:commits-transaction-logs.adoc[`updateHandler`] section also defined in `solrconfig.xml`.

Commit message:

SOLR-17419: Introduce ParallelHttpShardHandler (#2681)
The default ShardHandler implementation, HttpShardHandler, sends all
shard-requests serially, only parallelizing the waiting and parsing of
responses.  This works great for collections with few shards, but as the
number of shards increases the serialized sending of shard-requests adds
a larger and larger overhead to the overall request (especially when
auth and PKI are done at request-sending time).

This commit fixes this by introducing an alternate ShardHandler
implementation, geared towards collections with many shards.  This
ShardHandler uses an executor to parallelize both request sending and
response waiting/parsing.  This consumes more CPU, but reduces greatly
reduces the latency/QTime observed by users querying many-shard
collections.

solr/solr-ref-guide/modules/configuration-guide/pages/requesthandlers-searchcomponents.adoc, after:

= Request Handlers and Search Components
// Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
// or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
// distributed with this work for additional information
// regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
// to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
// "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
// with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
//
//   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
//
// Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
// software distributed under the License is distributed on an
// "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
// KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
// specific language governing permissions and limitations
// under the License.

After the `<query>` section of `solrconfig.xml`, request handlers and search components are configured.

A _request handler_ processes requests coming to Solr.
These might be query requests, index update requests or specialized interactions such as xref:deployment-guide:ping.adoc[].

Not all handlers are defined explicitly in `solrconfig.xml`, many are defined implicitly.
See xref:implicit-requesthandlers.adoc[] for details.

Additionally, handlers can be defined or overridden in `configoverlay.json` by using xref:config-api.adoc[].
Finally, independent parameter sets can be also defined by xref:request-parameters-api.adoc[].
They will be stored in `params.json` file and referenced with <<paramsets-and-useparams,useParams>>.

All of this multi-layered configuration can be verified via xref:config-api.adoc[].

Defining your own config handlers is often a useful way to provide defaults and advanced configuration to support business cases and simplify client API.
At the same time, using every single option explained in this guide, will most certainly cause some confusion about which parameter is actually used when.

== Defining and Calling Request Handlers

Every request handler is defined with a name and a class.
The name of the request handler is referenced with the request to Solr, typically as a path.
For example, if Solr is installed at `\http://localhost:8983/solr/`, and you have a collection named "gettingstarted", you can make a request that looks like this:

[source,text]
----
http://localhost:8983/solr/gettingstarted/select?q=solr
----

This query will be processed by the request handler with the name `/select`.
We've only used the "q" parameter here, which includes our query term, a simple keyword of "solr".
If the request handler has more default parameters defined, those will be used with any query we send to that request handler unless they are overridden by the client (or user) in the query itself.

If you have another request handler defined, you could send your request with that name.
For example, `/update` is an implicit request handler that handles index updates (i.e., sending new documents to the index).
By default, `/select` is a request handler that handles query requests and one expected by most examples and tools.

Request handlers can also process requests for nested paths in their names,
for example, a request using `/myhandler/extrapath` may be processed by a request handler registered with the name `/myhandler`.
If a request handler is explicitly defined by the name `/myhandler/extrapath`, that would take precedence over the nested path.
This assumes you are using the request handler classes included with Solr; if you create your own request handler,
you should make sure it includes the ability to handle nested paths if you want to use them with your custom request handler.

If a request handler is not expected to be used very often, it can be marked with `startup="lazy"` to avoid loading until needed.

[source,xml]
----
<requestHandler name="/spell" class="solr.SearchHandler" startup="lazy">
 ...
</requestHandler>
----

== Configuring Request Handlers
There are 3 ways to configure request handlers inside their definitions and another 3 ways to configure them somewhere else.

=== Request Parameters (GET and POST)
The easiest and most flexible way is to provide parameters with standard GET or POST requests.

Here is an example of sending parameters `id`, `fl`, and `wt` to `/select` Search Handler.
Notice the URL-encoded space (as +) for the values of `fl` parameter.

[source,text]
----
http://localhost:8983/solr/techproducts/select?q=id:SP2514N&fl=id+name&wt=xml
----

The following is an example of parameters being sent through the POST form to `/query` Search Handler using the xref:query-guide:json-request-api.adoc[].

[source,bash]
----
curl http://localhost:8983/solr/techproducts/query -d '
{
  "query" : "memory",
  "filter" : "inStock:true"
}'
----

Either way, the parameters are extracted and combined with other options explained below.

=== Defaults, Appends, and Invariants

==== Defaults

The most common way to configure request handlers is by providing `defaults` section.
The parameters there are used unless they are overridden by any other method.

[source,xml]
----
<requestHandler name="/select" class="solr.SearchHandler">
  <lst name="defaults">
    <str name="echoParams">explicit</str>
    <int name="rows">10</int>
  </lst>
</requestHandler>
----

This example defined a useful troubleshooting parameter xref:query-guide:common-query-parameters.adoc#echoparams-parameter[echoParams], with value that returns only params defined in the request itself (no defaults), set it to `all` for more information.
It also defines the `rows` parameter, with how many results to return (per page) (10 is a true default actually, so this is a redundant definition, if you are not going to modify it).

Note also that the way the defaults are defined in the list varies if the parameter is a string, an integer, or another type.

Here is how some other primitive types are represented:

[source,xml]
----
  <lst name="defaults">
    <float name="hl.regex.slop">0.5</float>
    <bool name="default">true</bool>
  </lst>
----

Other specialized types may exist, they would be explained in the sections for relevant components.

==== Appends

In the `appends` section, you can define parameters that are added those already defined elsewhere.
These are useful when the same parameter may be meaningfully defined multiple times, such as for xref:query-guide:common-query-parameters.adoc#fq-filter-query-parameter[filter queries].
There is no mechanism in Solr to allow a client to override these additions, so you should be absolutely sure you always want these parameters applied to queries.

[source,xml]
----
<lst name="appends">
  <str name="fq">inStock:true</str>
</lst>
----

In this example, the filter query `inStock:true` will always be added to every query, enforcing that only available "products" are returned.

==== Invariants

In the `invariants` section, you can define parameters that cannot be overridden by a client.
The values defined in the `invariants` section will always be used regardless of the values specified by the user, by the client, in `defaults` or in `appends`.


[source,xml]
----
<lst name="invariants">
  <str name="facet.field">cat</str>
  <str name="facet.field">manu_exact</str>
  <str name="facet.query">price:[* TO 500]</str>
  <str name="facet.query">price:[500 TO *]</str>
</lst>
----

In this example, the `facet.field` and `facet.query` params would be fixed, limiting the facets clients can use.
Faceting is not turned on by default - but if the client does specify  `facet=true` in the request,
these are the only facets they will be able to see counts for; regardless of what other `facet.field` or `facet.query` params they may specify.

=== InitParams
It is also possible to configure defaults for request handlers with a section called `initParams`.
These defaults can be used when you want to have common properties that will be used by each separate handler.
For example, if you intend to create several request handlers that will all request the same list of fields in the response, you can configure an `initParams` section with your list of fields.
For more information about `initParams`, see the section xref:initparams.adoc[].

=== Paramsets and UseParams
If you are expecting to change the parameters often, or if you want define sets of parameters that you can apply on the fly,
you can define them with xref:request-parameters-api.adoc[] and then invoke them
by providing one or more in `useParams` setting either in the handler definition itself or as a query parameter.

[source,xml]
----
<requestHandler name="/terms" class="solr.SearchHandler" useParams="myQueries">

...
</requestHandler>
----

[source,text]
----
http://localhost/solr/techproducts/select?useParams=myFacets,myQueries
----

If a paramset is called but is not defined, it is ignored.
This allows most xref:implicit-requesthandlers.adoc[] to call specific paramsets that you can define later, as needed.


== Search Handlers

Search Handlers are very important to Solr, as the data is indexed (roughly) once but is searched many times.
The whole design of Solr (and Lucene) is optimising data for searching and Search Handler is a flexible gateway to that.

The following sections are allowed within a Search Handler:

[source,xml]
----
<requestHandler name="/select" class="solr.SearchHandler">
... defaults/appends/invariants
... first-components/last-components or components
... shardHandlerFactory
</requestHandler>
----

All the blocks are optional, especially since parameters can also be provided with `initParams` and `useParams`.

The defaults/appends/invariants blocks were described earlier in <<defaults-appends-and-invariants>>.
All query parameters can be defined as parameters for any of the Search Handlers.

The `shardHandlerFactory` section can be used to provide fine-grained control of how this SearchHandler makes requests to other shards and replicas in a SolrCloud collection.
See the xref:configuration-guide:configuring-solr-xml.adoc#the-shardhandlerfactory-element[ShardHandler documentation here] for more details.

=== Defining Search Components
The search components themselves are defined outside of the Request Handlers and then are referenced from various Search Handlers that want to use them.
Most Search Handlers use the default - implicit - stack of Search Components and only sometimes need to augment them with additional components prepended or appended.
It is quite rare - and somewhat brittle - to completely override the component stack, though it is used in examples to clearly demonstrate the effect of a specific Search Component.

==== Default Components

As you can see below, what we see as a search experience is mostly a sequence of components defined below.
They are called in the order listed.

[cols="20,40,40",options="header"]
|===
|Component Name |Class Name |More Information
|query |`solr.QueryComponent` |Described in the section xref:query-guide:query-syntax-and-parsers.adoc[].
|facet |`solr.FacetComponent` |Original parameter-based facet component, described in the section xref:query-guide:faceting.adoc[].
|facet_module |`solr.facet.FacetModule` | JSON Faceting and Analytics module, described in the section xref:query-guide:json-facet-api.adoc[].
|mlt |`solr.MoreLikeThisComponent` |Described in the section xref:query-guide:morelikethis.adoc[].
|highlight |`solr.HighlightComponent` |Described in the section xref:query-guide:highlighting.adoc[].
|stats |`solr.StatsComponent` |Described in the section xref:query-guide:stats-component.adoc[].
|expand |`solr.ExpandComponent` |Described in the section xref:query-guide:collapse-and-expand-results.adoc[].
|terms |`solr.TermsComponent` |Described in the section xref:query-guide:terms-component.adoc[].
|debug |`solr.DebugComponent` |Described in the section on xref:query-guide:common-query-parameters.adoc#debug-parameter[debug Parameter].
|===

==== Shipped Custom Components
Apart from default components, Solr ships with a number of additional - very useful - components.
They do need to defined and referenced in `solrconfig.xml` to be actually used.

* `ClusteringComponent`, described in the section xref:query-guide:result-clustering.adoc[].
* `PhrasesIdentificationComponent`, used to identify & score "phrases" found in the input string, based on shingles in indexed fields, described in the {solr-javadocs}/core/org/apache/solr/handler/component/PhrasesIdentificationComponent.html[PhrasesIdentificationComponent] javadocs.
* `QueryElevationComponent`, described in the section xref:query-guide:query-elevation-component.adoc[].
* `RealTimeGetComponent`, described in the section xref:realtime-get.adoc[].
* `ResponseLogComponent`, used to record which documents are returned to the user via the Solr log, described in the {solr-javadocs}/core/org/apache/solr/handler/component/ResponseLogComponent.html[ResponseLogComponent] javadocs.
* `SpellCheckComponent`, described in the section xref:query-guide:spell-checking.adoc[].
* `SuggestComponent`, described in the section xref:query-guide:suggester.adoc[].
* `TermVectorComponent`, described in the section xref:query-guide:term-vector-component.adoc[].

Some third party components are also linked from https://solr.cool/ website.

==== Defining Custom Search Components
To define custom component, the syntax is:

[source,xml]
----
<searchComponent name="spellcheck" class="solr.SpellCheckComponent">
  <lst name="spellchecker">
    <str name="classname">solr.IndexBasedSpellChecker</str>
    ...
  </lst>
</searchComponent>
----

Custom components often have configuration elements not described here.
Check specific component's documentation/examples for details.

Notice: If you register a new search component with one of the default names, the newly defined component will be used instead of the default.
This allows to override a specific component, while not having to worry so much about upgrading Solr.

=== Referencing Search Components

It's possible to define some components as being used before (with `first-components`) or after (with `last-components`) the default components listed above.

[source,xml]
----
<searchComponent name="..." class="...">
 <arr name="first-components">
      <str>mycomponent</str>
    </arr>
    <arr name="last-components">
      <str>spellcheck</str>
    </arr>
</searchComponent>
----

NOTE: The component registered with the name "debug" will always be executed after the "last-components"

If you define `components` instead, the <<default-components>> will not be executed, and `first-components` and `last-components` are disallowed.
This should be considered as a last-resort option as the default list may change in a later Solr version.

[source,xml]
----
<searchComponent name="..." class="...">
    <arr name="components">
      <str>mycomponent</str>
      <str>query</str>
      <str>debug</str>
    </arr>
</searchComponent>
----


== Update Request Handlers

The Update Request Handlers are request handlers which process updates to the index.
Most of the available update request handlers are xref:implicit-requesthandlers.adoc#update-handlers[implicit] and can be customized by defining properly named Paramsets.

If you need to define additional Update Request Handler, the syntax is:

[source,xml]
----
<requestHandler name="/update/json" class="solr.UpdateRequestHandler">
... defaults/appends/invariants
</requestHandler>

----

The full details are covered in the section xref:indexing-guide:indexing-with-update-handlers.adoc[].

Similar to Search Components for Search Handlers, Solr has document-preprocessing plugins for Update Request Handlers,
called xref:update-request-processors.adoc[],
which also allow for default and custom configuration chains.

Note: Do not confuse Update Request Handlers with xref:commits-transaction-logs.adoc[`updateHandler`] section also defined in `solrconfig.xml`.
