solr/solr-ref-guide/modules/indexing-guide/pages/field-type-definitions-and-properties.adoc, before:

= Field Type Definitions and Properties
// Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
// or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
// distributed with this work for additional information
// regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
// to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
// "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
// with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
//
//   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
//
// Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
// software distributed under the License is distributed on an
// "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
// KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
// specific language governing permissions and limitations
// under the License.

A field type defines the analysis that will occur on a field when documents are indexed or queries are sent to the index.

A field type definition can include four types of information:

* The name of the field type (mandatory).
* An implementation class name (mandatory).
* If the field type is `TextField`, a description of the field analysis for the field type.
* Field type properties - depending on the implementation class, some properties may be mandatory.

== Field Type Definitions in the Schema

Field types are defined in the collection's xref:schema-elements.adoc[schema].
Each field type is defined between `fieldType` elements.
They can optionally be grouped within a `types` element.

Here is an example of a field type definition for a type called `text_general`:

[source,xml,subs="verbatim,callouts"]
----
<fieldType name="text_general" class="solr.TextField" positionIncrementGap="100"> --<1>
  <analyzer type="index"> --<2>
    <tokenizer class="solr.StandardTokenizerFactory"/>
    <filter class="solr.StopFilterFactory" ignoreCase="true" words="stopwords.txt" />
    <!-- in this example, we will only use synonyms at query time
    <filter class="solr.SynonymFilterFactory" synonyms="index_synonyms.txt" ignoreCase="true" expand="false"/>
    -->
    <filter class="solr.LowerCaseFilterFactory"/>
  </analyzer>
  <analyzer type="query">
    <tokenizer class="solr.StandardTokenizerFactory"/>
    <filter class="solr.StopFilterFactory" ignoreCase="true" words="stopwords.txt" />
    <filter class="solr.SynonymFilterFactory" synonyms="synonyms.txt" ignoreCase="true" expand="true"/>
    <filter class="solr.LowerCaseFilterFactory"/>
  </analyzer>
</fieldType>
----

<1> The first line in the example above contains the field type name, `text_general`, and the name of the implementing class, `solr.TextField`.
<2> The rest of the definition is about field analysis, described in xref:document-analysis.adoc[].

The implementing class is responsible for making sure the field is handled correctly.
In the class names, the string `solr` is shorthand for `org.apache.solr.schema` or `org.apache.solr.analysis`.
Therefore, `solr.TextField` is really `org.apache.solr.schema.TextField`.

== Field Type Properties

The field type `class` determines most of the behavior of a field type, but optional properties can also be defined.
For example, the following definition of a date field type defines two properties, `sortMissingLast` and `omitNorms`.

[source,xml]
----
<fieldType name="date" class="solr.DatePointField"
           sortMissingLast="true" omitNorms="true"/>
----

The properties that can be specified for a given field type fall into three major categories:

* Properties specific to the field type's class.
* <<General Properties>> Solr supports for any field type.
* <<Field Default Properties>> that can be specified on the field type that will be inherited by fields that use this type instead of the default behavior.

=== General Properties

These are the general properties for fields:

`name`::
+
[%autowidth,frame=none]
|===
s|Required |Default: none
|===
+
The name of the fieldType.
This value gets used in field definitions, in the "type" attribute.
It is strongly recommended that names consist of alphanumeric or underscore characters only and not start with a digit.
This is not currently strictly enforced.

`class`::
+
[%autowidth,frame=none]
|===
s|Required |Default: none
|===
+
The class name used to store and index the data for this type.
Note that you may prefix included class names with "solr." and Solr will automatically figure out which packages to search for the class - so `solr.TextField` will work.
+
If you are using a third-party class, you will probably need to have a fully qualified class name.
The fully qualified equivalent for `solr.TextField` is `org.apache.solr.schema.TextField`.

`positionIncrementGap`::
+
[%autowidth,frame=none]
|===
|Optional |Default: none
|===
+
For multivalued fields, specifies a distance between multiple values, which prevents spurious phrase matches.

`autoGeneratePhraseQueries`::
+
[%autowidth,frame=none]
|===
|Optional |Default: none
|===
+
For text fields.
If `true`, Solr automatically generates phrase queries for adjacent terms.
If `false`, terms must be enclosed in double-quotes to be treated as phrases.

`synonymQueryStyle`::
+
[%autowidth,frame=none]
|===
|Optional |Default: `as_same_term`
|===
+
Query used to combine scores of overlapping query terms (i.e., synonyms).
Consider a search for "blue tee" with query-time synonyms `tshirt,tee`.

* `as_same_term`: Blends terms, i.e., `SynonymQuery(tshirt,tee)` where each term will be treated as equally important.
This option is appropriate when terms are true synonyms (e.g., "television, tv").
* `pick_best`: Selects the most significant synonym when scoring `Dismax(tee,tshirt)`.
Use this when synonyms are expanding to hyponyms `(q=jeans w/ jeans=>jeans,pants)` and you want exact to come before parent and sibling concepts.
* `as_distinct_terms`: Biases scoring towards the most significant synonym `(pants OR slacks)`.
+
This blog post http://opensourceconnections.com/blog/2017/11/21/solr-synonyms-mea-culpa/[Solr Synonyms and Taxonomies: Mea Culpa] discusses Solr's behavior with synonym expansion.

`enableGraphQueries`::
+
[%autowidth,frame=none]
|===
|Optional |Default: `true`
|===
+
For text fields, applicable when querying with xref:query-guide:standard-query-parser.adoc#standard-query-parser-parameters[`sow=false`] (the default).
Use `true` for field types with query analyzers including graph-aware filters, e.g., xref:filters.adoc#synonym-graph-filter[Synonym Graph Filter] and xref:filters.adoc#word-delimiter-graph-filter[Word Delimiter Graph Filter].
+
Use `false` for field types with query analyzers including filters that can match docs when some tokens are missing, e.g., xref:filters.adoc#shingle-filter[Shingle Filter].

[[docvaluesformat]]
`docValuesFormat`::
+
[%autowidth,frame=none]
|===
|Optional |Default: none
|===
+
Defines a custom `DocValuesFormat` to use for fields of this type.
This requires that a schema-aware codec, such as the xref:configuration-guide:codec-factory.adoc[Schema Codec Factory], is in use.

`postingsFormat`::
+
[%autowidth,frame=none]
|===
|Optional |Default: none
|===
+
Defines a custom `PostingsFormat` to use for fields of this type.
This requires that a schema-aware codec, such as the xref:configuration-guide:codec-factory.adoc[Schema Codec Factory], is in use.


[NOTE]
====
Lucene index back-compatibility is only supported for the default codec.
If you choose to customize the `postingsFormat` or `docValuesFormat` in your schema, upgrading to a future version of Solr may require you to either switch back to the default codec and optimize your index to rewrite it into the default codec before upgrading, or re-build your entire index from scratch after upgrading.
====

=== Field Default Properties

These are properties that can be specified either on the field types, or on individual fields to override the values provided by the field types.

The default values for each property depend on the underlying `FieldType` class, which in turn may depend on the `version` attribute of the `<schema/>`.
The table below includes the default value for most `FieldType` implementations provided by Solr, assuming a schema that declares `version="1.6"`.

// tags this table for inclusion in another page
// tag::field-params[]
[%autowidth.stretch,options="header"]
|===
|Property |Description |Implicit Default
|`indexed` |If `true`, the value of the field can be used in queries to retrieve matching documents. |`true`
|`stored` |If `true`, the actual value of the field can be retrieved by queries.  |`true`
|`docValues` |If `true`, the value of the field will be put in a column-oriented xref:docvalues.adoc[] structure. |`true`
|`sortMissingFirst`, `sortMissingLast` |Control the placement of documents when a sort field is not present. |`false`
|`multiValued` |If `true`, indicates that a single document might contain multiple values for this field type. |`false`
|`uninvertible` |If `true`, indicates that an `indexed="true" docValues="false"` field can be "un-inverted" at query time to build up large in memory data structure to serve in place of xref:docvalues.adoc[]. |`false`
|`omitNorms` |If `true`, omits the norms associated with this field (this disables length normalization for the field, and saves some memory). *Defaults to true for all primitive (non-analyzed) field types, such as int, float, data, bool, and string.* Only full-text fields or fields that need an index-time boost need norms. |*
|`omitTermFreqAndPositions` |If `true`, omits term frequency, positions, and payloads from postings for this field. This can be a performance boost for fields that don't require that information. It also reduces the storage space required for the index. Queries that rely on position that are issued on a field with this option will silently fail to find documents. *This property defaults to true for all field types that are not text fields.* |*
|`omitPositions` |Similar to `omitTermFreqAndPositions` but preserves term frequency information. |*
|`termVectors`, `termPositions`, `termOffsets`, `termPayloads` |These options instruct Solr to maintain full term vectors for each document, optionally including position, offset, and payload information for each term occurrence in those vectors. These can be used to accelerate highlighting and other ancillary functionality, but impose a substantial cost in terms of index size. They are not necessary for typical uses of Solr. |`false`
|`required` |Instructs Solr to reject any attempts to add a document which does not have a value for this field. This property defaults to false. |`false`
|`useDocValuesAsStored` |If the field has xref:docvalues.adoc[] enabled, setting this to true would allow the field to be returned as if it were a stored field (even if it has `stored=false`) when matching "`*`" in an xref:query-guide:common-query-parameters.adoc#fl-field-list-parameter[fl parameter]. |`true`
|`large` |Large fields are always lazy loaded and will only take up space in the document cache if the actual value is < 512KB. This option requires `stored="true"` and `multiValued="false"`. It's intended for fields that might have very large values so that they don't get cached in memory. |`false`
|===

// end::field-params[]

== Choosing Appropriate Numeric Types

For general numeric needs, consider using one of the `IntPointField`, `LongPointField`, `FloatPointField`, or `DoublePointField` classes, depending on the specific values you expect.
These "Dimensional Point" based numeric classes use specially encoded data structures to support efficient range queries regardless of the size of the ranges used.
Enable xref:docvalues.adoc[] on these fields as needed for sorting and/or faceting.

Some Solr features may not yet work with "Dimensional Points", in which case you may want to consider the equivalent `TrieIntField`, `TrieLongField`, `TrieFloatField`, and `TrieDoubleField` classes.
These field types are deprecated and are likely to be removed in a future major Solr release, but they can still be used if necessary.
Configure a `precisionStep="0"` if you wish to minimize index size, but if you expect users to make frequent range queries on numeric types, use the default `precisionStep` (by not specifying it) or specify it as `precisionStep="8"` (which is the default).
This offers faster speed for range queries at the expense of increasing index size.

== Working With Text

Handling text properly will make your users happy by providing them with the best possible results for text searches.

One technique is using a text field as a catch-all for keyword searching.
Most users are not sophisticated about their searches and the most common search is likely to be a simple keyword search.
You can use `copyField` to take a variety of fields and funnel them all into a single text field for keyword searches.

In the schema for the "techproducts" example included with Solr, `copyField` declarations are used to dump the contents of `cat`, `name`, `manu`, `features`, and `includes` into a single field, `text`. In addition, it could be a good idea to copy `ID` into `text` in case users wanted to search for a particular product by passing its product number to a keyword search.

Another technique is using `copyField` to use the same field in different ways.
Suppose you have a field that is a list of authors, like this:

`Schildt, Herbert; Wolpert, Lewis; Davies, P.`

For searching by author, you could tokenize the field, convert to lower case, and strip out punctuation:

`schildt / herbert / wolpert / lewis / davies / p`

For sorting, just use an untokenized field, converted to lower case, with punctuation stripped:

`schildt herbert wolpert lewis davies p`

Finally, for faceting, use the primary author only via a `StrField`:

`Schildt, Herbert`

== Field Type Similarity

A field type may optionally specify a `<similarity/>` that will be used when scoring documents that refer to fields with this type, as long as the "global" similarity for the collection allows it.

By default, any field type which does not define a similarity, uses `BM25Similarity`.
For more details, and examples of configuring both global & per-type similarities, please see xref:schema-elements.adoc#similarity[Similarity].

Commit message:

SOLR-10808: Enable docValues by default on specific fields (#2606)
Fields:
- PrimitiveField (Numbers/Dates/String/UUID/Enum/Bool) - Without DenseVectors
- SortableTextField
- SortableBinaryField
- ICUCollationField
- CollationField
- LatLonPointSpacialField

(cherry picked from commit b44bdc198d835ad7ebc07c5b4b0cb2e9c6c8ab74)

solr/solr-ref-guide/modules/indexing-guide/pages/field-type-definitions-and-properties.adoc, after:

= Field Type Definitions and Properties
// Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
// or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
// distributed with this work for additional information
// regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
// to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
// "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
// with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
//
//   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
//
// Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
// software distributed under the License is distributed on an
// "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
// KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
// specific language governing permissions and limitations
// under the License.

A field type defines the analysis that will occur on a field when documents are indexed or queries are sent to the index.

A field type definition can include four types of information:

* The name of the field type (mandatory).
* An implementation class name (mandatory).
* If the field type is `TextField`, a description of the field analysis for the field type.
* Field type properties - depending on the implementation class, some properties may be mandatory.

== Field Type Definitions in the Schema

Field types are defined in the collection's xref:schema-elements.adoc[schema].
Each field type is defined between `fieldType` elements.
They can optionally be grouped within a `types` element.

Here is an example of a field type definition for a type called `text_general`:

[source,xml,subs="verbatim,callouts"]
----
<fieldType name="text_general" class="solr.TextField" positionIncrementGap="100"> --<1>
  <analyzer type="index"> --<2>
    <tokenizer class="solr.StandardTokenizerFactory"/>
    <filter class="solr.StopFilterFactory" ignoreCase="true" words="stopwords.txt" />
    <!-- in this example, we will only use synonyms at query time
    <filter class="solr.SynonymFilterFactory" synonyms="index_synonyms.txt" ignoreCase="true" expand="false"/>
    -->
    <filter class="solr.LowerCaseFilterFactory"/>
  </analyzer>
  <analyzer type="query">
    <tokenizer class="solr.StandardTokenizerFactory"/>
    <filter class="solr.StopFilterFactory" ignoreCase="true" words="stopwords.txt" />
    <filter class="solr.SynonymFilterFactory" synonyms="synonyms.txt" ignoreCase="true" expand="true"/>
    <filter class="solr.LowerCaseFilterFactory"/>
  </analyzer>
</fieldType>
----

<1> The first line in the example above contains the field type name, `text_general`, and the name of the implementing class, `solr.TextField`.
<2> The rest of the definition is about field analysis, described in xref:document-analysis.adoc[].

The implementing class is responsible for making sure the field is handled correctly.
In the class names, the string `solr` is shorthand for `org.apache.solr.schema` or `org.apache.solr.analysis`.
Therefore, `solr.TextField` is really `org.apache.solr.schema.TextField`.

== Field Type Properties

The field type `class` determines most of the behavior of a field type, but optional properties can also be defined.
For example, the following definition of a date field type defines two properties, `sortMissingLast` and `omitNorms`.

[source,xml]
----
<fieldType name="date" class="solr.DatePointField"
           sortMissingLast="true" omitNorms="true"/>
----

The properties that can be specified for a given field type fall into three major categories:

* Properties specific to the field type's class.
* <<General Properties>> Solr supports for any field type.
* <<Field Default Properties>> that can be specified on the field type that will be inherited by fields that use this type instead of the default behavior.

=== General Properties

These are the general properties for fields:

`name`::
+
[%autowidth,frame=none]
|===
s|Required |Default: none
|===
+
The name of the fieldType.
This value gets used in field definitions, in the "type" attribute.
It is strongly recommended that names consist of alphanumeric or underscore characters only and not start with a digit.
This is not currently strictly enforced.

`class`::
+
[%autowidth,frame=none]
|===
s|Required |Default: none
|===
+
The class name used to store and index the data for this type.
Note that you may prefix included class names with "solr." and Solr will automatically figure out which packages to search for the class - so `solr.TextField` will work.
+
If you are using a third-party class, you will probably need to have a fully qualified class name.
The fully qualified equivalent for `solr.TextField` is `org.apache.solr.schema.TextField`.

`positionIncrementGap`::
+
[%autowidth,frame=none]
|===
|Optional |Default: none
|===
+
For multivalued fields, specifies a distance between multiple values, which prevents spurious phrase matches.

`autoGeneratePhraseQueries`::
+
[%autowidth,frame=none]
|===
|Optional |Default: none
|===
+
For text fields.
If `true`, Solr automatically generates phrase queries for adjacent terms.
If `false`, terms must be enclosed in double-quotes to be treated as phrases.

`synonymQueryStyle`::
+
[%autowidth,frame=none]
|===
|Optional |Default: `as_same_term`
|===
+
Query used to combine scores of overlapping query terms (i.e., synonyms).
Consider a search for "blue tee" with query-time synonyms `tshirt,tee`.

* `as_same_term`: Blends terms, i.e., `SynonymQuery(tshirt,tee)` where each term will be treated as equally important.
This option is appropriate when terms are true synonyms (e.g., "television, tv").
* `pick_best`: Selects the most significant synonym when scoring `Dismax(tee,tshirt)`.
Use this when synonyms are expanding to hyponyms `(q=jeans w/ jeans=>jeans,pants)` and you want exact to come before parent and sibling concepts.
* `as_distinct_terms`: Biases scoring towards the most significant synonym `(pants OR slacks)`.
+
This blog post http://opensourceconnections.com/blog/2017/11/21/solr-synonyms-mea-culpa/[Solr Synonyms and Taxonomies: Mea Culpa] discusses Solr's behavior with synonym expansion.

`enableGraphQueries`::
+
[%autowidth,frame=none]
|===
|Optional |Default: `true`
|===
+
For text fields, applicable when querying with xref:query-guide:standard-query-parser.adoc#standard-query-parser-parameters[`sow=false`] (the default).
Use `true` for field types with query analyzers including graph-aware filters, e.g., xref:filters.adoc#synonym-graph-filter[Synonym Graph Filter] and xref:filters.adoc#word-delimiter-graph-filter[Word Delimiter Graph Filter].
+
Use `false` for field types with query analyzers including filters that can match docs when some tokens are missing, e.g., xref:filters.adoc#shingle-filter[Shingle Filter].

[[docvaluesformat]]
`docValuesFormat`::
+
[%autowidth,frame=none]
|===
|Optional |Default: none
|===
+
Defines a custom `DocValuesFormat` to use for fields of this type.
This requires that a schema-aware codec, such as the xref:configuration-guide:codec-factory.adoc[Schema Codec Factory], is in use.

`postingsFormat`::
+
[%autowidth,frame=none]
|===
|Optional |Default: none
|===
+
Defines a custom `PostingsFormat` to use for fields of this type.
This requires that a schema-aware codec, such as the xref:configuration-guide:codec-factory.adoc[Schema Codec Factory], is in use.


[NOTE]
====
Lucene index back-compatibility is only supported for the default codec.
If you choose to customize the `postingsFormat` or `docValuesFormat` in your schema, upgrading to a future version of Solr may require you to either switch back to the default codec and optimize your index to rewrite it into the default codec before upgrading, or re-build your entire index from scratch after upgrading.
====

=== Field Default Properties

These are properties that can be specified either on the field types, or on individual fields to override the values provided by the field types.

The default values for each property depend on the underlying `FieldType` class, which in turn may depend on the `version` attribute of the `<schema/>`.
The table below includes the default value for most `FieldType` implementations provided by Solr, assuming a schema that declares `version="1.6"`.

// tags this table for inclusion in another page
// tag::field-params[]
[%autowidth.stretch,options="header"]
|===
|Property |Description |Implicit Default
|`indexed` |If `true`, the value of the field can be used in queries to retrieve matching documents. |`true`
|`stored` |If `true`, the actual value of the field can be retrieved by queries.  |`true`
|`docValues` |If `true`, the value of the field will be put in a column-oriented xref:docvalues.adoc[] structure. |`true` for xref:indexing-guide:docvalues.adoc#enabling-docvalues[_most_ fields]
|`sortMissingFirst`, `sortMissingLast` |Control the placement of documents when a sort field is not present. |`false`
|`multiValued` |If `true`, indicates that a single document might contain multiple values for this field type. |`false`
|`uninvertible` |If `true`, indicates that an `indexed="true" docValues="false"` field can be "un-inverted" at query time to build up large in memory data structure to serve in place of xref:docvalues.adoc[]. |`false`
|`omitNorms` |If `true`, omits the norms associated with this field (this disables length normalization for the field, and saves some memory). *Defaults to true for all primitive (non-analyzed) field types, such as int, float, data, bool, and string.* Only full-text fields or fields that need an index-time boost need norms. |*
|`omitTermFreqAndPositions` |If `true`, omits term frequency, positions, and payloads from postings for this field. This can be a performance boost for fields that don't require that information. It also reduces the storage space required for the index. Queries that rely on position that are issued on a field with this option will silently fail to find documents. *This property defaults to true for all field types that are not text fields.* |*
|`omitPositions` |Similar to `omitTermFreqAndPositions` but preserves term frequency information. |*
|`termVectors`, `termPositions`, `termOffsets`, `termPayloads` |These options instruct Solr to maintain full term vectors for each document, optionally including position, offset, and payload information for each term occurrence in those vectors. These can be used to accelerate highlighting and other ancillary functionality, but impose a substantial cost in terms of index size. They are not necessary for typical uses of Solr. |`false`
|`required` |Instructs Solr to reject any attempts to add a document which does not have a value for this field. This property defaults to false. |`false`
|`useDocValuesAsStored` |If the field has xref:docvalues.adoc[] enabled, setting this to true would allow the field to be returned as if it were a stored field (even if it has `stored=false`) when matching "`*`" in an xref:query-guide:common-query-parameters.adoc#fl-field-list-parameter[fl parameter]. |`true`
|`large` |Large fields are always lazy loaded and will only take up space in the document cache if the actual value is < 512KB. This option requires `stored="true"` and `multiValued="false"`. It's intended for fields that might have very large values so that they don't get cached in memory. |`false`
|===

// end::field-params[]

== Choosing Appropriate Numeric Types

For general numeric needs, consider using one of the `IntPointField`, `LongPointField`, `FloatPointField`, or `DoublePointField` classes, depending on the specific values you expect.
These "Dimensional Point" based numeric classes use specially encoded data structures to support efficient range queries regardless of the size of the ranges used.
Enable xref:docvalues.adoc[] on these fields as needed for sorting and/or faceting.

Some Solr features may not yet work with "Dimensional Points", in which case you may want to consider the equivalent `TrieIntField`, `TrieLongField`, `TrieFloatField`, and `TrieDoubleField` classes.
These field types are deprecated and are likely to be removed in a future major Solr release, but they can still be used if necessary.
Configure a `precisionStep="0"` if you wish to minimize index size, but if you expect users to make frequent range queries on numeric types, use the default `precisionStep` (by not specifying it) or specify it as `precisionStep="8"` (which is the default).
This offers faster speed for range queries at the expense of increasing index size.

== Working With Text

Handling text properly will make your users happy by providing them with the best possible results for text searches.

One technique is using a text field as a catch-all for keyword searching.
Most users are not sophisticated about their searches and the most common search is likely to be a simple keyword search.
You can use `copyField` to take a variety of fields and funnel them all into a single text field for keyword searches.

In the schema for the "techproducts" example included with Solr, `copyField` declarations are used to dump the contents of `cat`, `name`, `manu`, `features`, and `includes` into a single field, `text`. In addition, it could be a good idea to copy `ID` into `text` in case users wanted to search for a particular product by passing its product number to a keyword search.

Another technique is using `copyField` to use the same field in different ways.
Suppose you have a field that is a list of authors, like this:

`Schildt, Herbert; Wolpert, Lewis; Davies, P.`

For searching by author, you could tokenize the field, convert to lower case, and strip out punctuation:

`schildt / herbert / wolpert / lewis / davies / p`

For sorting, just use an untokenized field, converted to lower case, with punctuation stripped:

`schildt herbert wolpert lewis davies p`

Finally, for faceting, use the primary author only via a `StrField`:

`Schildt, Herbert`

== Field Type Similarity

A field type may optionally specify a `<similarity/>` that will be used when scoring documents that refer to fields with this type, as long as the "global" similarity for the collection allows it.

By default, any field type which does not define a similarity, uses `BM25Similarity`.
For more details, and examples of configuring both global & per-type similarities, please see xref:schema-elements.adoc#similarity[Similarity].
