solr/solr-ref-guide/modules/indexing-guide/pages/post-tool.adoc, before:

= Post Tool
// Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
// or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
// distributed with this work for additional information
// regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
// to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
// "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
// with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
//
//   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
//
// Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
// software distributed under the License is distributed on an
// "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
// KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
// specific language governing permissions and limitations
// under the License.

Solr includes a simple command line tool for POSTing various types of content to a Solr server.

The tool is `bin/solr post`.
The bin/solr post tool is a Unix shell script; for Windows (non-Cygwin) usage,use `bin/solr.cmd post`.

NOTE: This tool is meant for use by new users exploring Solr's capabilities, and is not intended as a robust solution to be used for indexing documents into production systems.

NOTE: You may be familiar with SimplePostTool and the bin/post Unix shell script.  While this is still available, it is deprecated and will be removed in Solr 10.


To run it, open a window and enter:

[,console]
----
$ bin/solr post -url http://localhost:8983/gettingstarted/update example/films/films.json
----

This will contact the server at `localhost:8983`.
The `-help` (or simply `-h`) option will output information on its usage (i.e., `bin/solr post -help)`.

== Using the bin/solr post Tool

Specifying the full update `url` is *mandatory* when using `bin/solr post`.

The basic usage of `bin/solr post` is:

[source,plain]
----
$ bin/solr post -h
Usage: post -url http://localhost:8983/gettingstarted/update [OPTIONS] <files|directories|urls|-d ["...",...]>
    or post -help

OPTIONS
=======
  Solr options:
    -url <base Solr update URL>
    -commit issue a commit
    -u or -credentials <user:pass> (sets BasicAuth credentials)

  Web crawl options:
    -recursive <depth> (default: 1)
    -delay <seconds> (default: 10)

  Directory crawl options:
    -delay <seconds> (default: 0)

  stdin/args options:
    -type <content/type> (default: application/json)


  Other options:
    -filetypes <type>[,<type>,...] (default: xml,json,csv,pdf,doc,docx,ppt,pptx,xls,xlsx,odt,odp,ods,ott,otp,ots,rtf,htm,html,txt,log)
    -params "<key>=<value>[&<key>=<value>...]" (values must be URL-encoded; these pass through to Solr update request)
    -out output the Solr responses to console
    -format solr (sends application/json content as Solr commands to /update instead of /update/json/docs
    
Examples:

* JSON file: bin/solr post -url http://localhost:8983/wizbang/update events.json
* XML files: bin/solr post -url http://localhost:8983/records/update article*.xml
* CSV file: bin/solr post -url http://localhost:8983/signals/update LATEST-signals.csv
* Directory of files: bin/solr post -filetypes xml,json,csv -url http://localhost:8983/myfiles/update ~/Documents
* Web crawl: bin/solr post -mode web -url http://localhost:8983/gettingstarted/update -recursive 1 -delay 1 https://solr.apache.org/ 
* Standard input (stdin): echo '{commit: {}}' | bin/solr post -mode stdin -url http://localhost:8983/my_collection/update -out
* Data as string: bin/solr post -url http://localhost:8983/signals/update -mode args -type text/csv -out $'id,value\n1,0.47' 

----

== Examples Using bin/solr post

There are several ways to use `bin/solr post`.
This section presents several examples.

=== Indexing XML

Add all documents with file extension `.xml` to the collection named `gettingstarted`.

[source,bash]
----
bin/solr post -url http://localhost:8983/solr/gettingstarted/update *.xml
----

Add all documents with file extension `.xml` to the `gettingstarted` collection on Solr running on port `8984`.

[source,bash]
----
bin/solr post -url http://localhost:8984/solr/gettingstarted/update *.xml
----

Send XML arguments to delete a document from `gettingstarted`.

[source,bash]
----
bin/solr post -url http://localhost:8983/solr/gettingstarted/update -mode args -type application/xml '<delete><id>42</id></delete>'
----

=== Indexing CSV and JSON

Index all CSV and JSON files into `gettingstarted` from current directory:

[source,bash]
----
bin/solr post -url http://localhost:8983/solr/gettingstarted/update -filetypes json,csv .
----

Index a tab-separated file into `gettingstarted`:

[source,bash]
----
bin/solr post -url http://localhost:8984/solr/signals/update -params "separator=%09" -type text/csv data.tsv
----

The content type (`-type`) parameter is required to treat the file as the proper type, otherwise it will be ignored and a WARNING logged as it does not know what type of content a .tsv file is.
The xref:indexing-with-update-handlers.adoc#csv-formatted-index-updates[CSV handler] supports the `separator` parameter, and is passed through using the `-params` setting.

=== Indexing JSON

Index all JSON files into `gettingstarted`.

[source,bash]
----
bin/solr post -url http://localhost:8983/solr/gettingstarted/update *.json
----

=== Indexing Rich Documents (PDF, Word, HTML, etc.)

Index a PDF file into `gettingstarted`.

[source,bash]
----
bin/solr post -url http://localhost:8983/solr/gettingstarted/update a.pdf
----

Automatically detect content types in a folder, and recursively scan it for documents for indexing into `gettingstarted`.

[source,bash]
----
bin/solr post -url http://localhost:8983/solr/gettingstarted/update afolder/
----

Automatically detect content types in a folder, but limit it to PPT and HTML files and index into `gettingstarted`.

[source,bash]
----
bin/solr post -url http://localhost:8983/solr/gettingstarted/update -filetypes ppt,html afolder/
----

=== Indexing to a Password Protected Solr (Basic Auth)

Index a PDF as the user "solr" with password "SolrRocks":

[source,bash]
----
bin/solr post -u solr:SolrRocks -url http://localhost:8983/solr/gettingstarted/update a.pdf
----

Commit message:

SOLR-17068: Resolve mish mash of bin/post and bin/solr post references in favour of bin/solr post. (#2227)
* update various examples to use bin/solr post instead of bin/post.

* Restore the -c parameter to the post tool, and ensure it picks up default urls settings if specified.

* Remove special text about how to use tool on Windows as no longer needed 

* move all our docker testing and actual docker scripts to using bin/solr post command instead of bin/post

solr/solr-ref-guide/modules/indexing-guide/pages/post-tool.adoc, after:

= Post Tool
// Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
// or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
// distributed with this work for additional information
// regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
// to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
// "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
// with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
//
//   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
//
// Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
// software distributed under the License is distributed on an
// "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
// KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
// specific language governing permissions and limitations
// under the License.

Solr includes a simple command line tool for POSTing various types of content to a Solr server that is part of the `bin/solr` CLI.

NOTE: This tool is meant for use by new users exploring Solr's capabilities, and is not intended as a robust solution to be used for indexing documents into production systems.

NOTE: You may be familiar with SimplePostTool and the `bin/post` Unix shell script.  While this is still available, it is deprecated and will be removed in Solr 10.


To run it, open a window and enter:

[,console]
----
$ bin/solr post -url http://localhost:8983/gettingstarted/update example/films/films.json
----

This will contact the server at `localhost:8983`.
The `-help` (or simply `-h`) option will output information on its usage (i.e., `bin/solr post -help)`.

== Using the bin/solr post Tool

You must either specify `url` that is the full path to the update handler or provide a `c` collection/core name when using `bin/solr post`.

This specifies the same target collection: `-url http://localhost:8983/gettingstarted/update` or `-c gettingstarted`.


The basic usage of `bin/solr post` is:

[source,plain]
----
$ bin/solr post -h
Usage: post -url http://localhost:8983/gettingstarted/update [OPTIONS] <files|directories|urls|-d ["...",...]>
    or post -help

OPTIONS
=======
  Solr options:
    -url <base Solr update URL>
    -commit issue a commit
    -u or -credentials <user:pass> (sets BasicAuth credentials)

  Web crawl options:
    -recursive <depth> (default: 1)
    -delay <seconds> (default: 10)

  Directory crawl options:
    -delay <seconds> (default: 0)

  stdin/args options:
    -type <content/type> (default: application/json)


  Other options:
    -filetypes <type>[,<type>,...] (default: xml,json,csv,pdf,doc,docx,ppt,pptx,xls,xlsx,odt,odp,ods,ott,otp,ots,rtf,htm,html,txt,log)
    -params "<key>=<value>[&<key>=<value>...]" (values must be URL-encoded; these pass through to Solr update request)
    -out output the Solr responses to console
    -format solr (sends application/json content as Solr commands to /update instead of /update/json/docs
    
Examples:

* JSON file: bin/solr post -url http://localhost:8983/wizbang/update events.json
* XML files: bin/solr post -url http://localhost:8983/records/update article*.xml
* CSV file: bin/solr post -url http://localhost:8983/signals/update LATEST-signals.csv
* Directory of files: bin/solr post -filetypes xml,json,csv -url http://localhost:8983/myfiles/update ~/Documents
* Web crawl: bin/solr post -mode web -url http://localhost:8983/gettingstarted/update -recursive 1 -delay 1 https://solr.apache.org/ 
* Standard input (stdin): echo '{commit: {}}' | bin/solr post -mode stdin -url http://localhost:8983/my_collection/update -out
* Data as string: bin/solr post -url http://localhost:8983/signals/update -mode args -type text/csv -out $'id,value\n1,0.47' 

----

== Examples Using bin/solr post

There are several ways to use `bin/solr post`.
This section presents several examples.

=== Indexing XML

Add all documents with file extension `.xml` to the collection named `gettingstarted`.

[source,bash]
----
bin/solr post -url http://localhost:8983/solr/gettingstarted/update *.xml
----

Add all documents with file extension `.xml` to the `gettingstarted` collection on Solr running on port `8984`.

[source,bash]
----
bin/solr post -url http://localhost:8984/solr/gettingstarted/update *.xml
----

Send XML arguments to delete a document from `gettingstarted`.

[source,bash]
----
bin/solr post -url http://localhost:8983/solr/gettingstarted/update -mode args -type application/xml '<delete><id>42</id></delete>'
----

=== Indexing CSV and JSON

Index all CSV and JSON files into `gettingstarted` from current directory:

[source,bash]
----
bin/solr post -c gettingstarted -filetypes json,csv .
----

Index a tab-separated file into `gettingstarted`:

[source,bash]
----
bin/solr post -url http://localhost:8984/solr/signals/update -params "separator=%09" -type text/csv data.tsv
----

The content type (`-type`) parameter is required to treat the file as the proper type, otherwise it will be ignored and a WARNING logged as it does not know what type of content a .tsv file is.
The xref:indexing-with-update-handlers.adoc#csv-formatted-index-updates[CSV handler] supports the `separator` parameter, and is passed through using the `-params` setting.

=== Indexing JSON

Index all JSON files into `gettingstarted`.

[source,bash]
----
bin/solr post -url http://localhost:8983/solr/gettingstarted/update *.json
----

=== Indexing Rich Documents (PDF, Word, HTML, etc.)

Index a PDF file into `gettingstarted`.

[source,bash]
----
bin/solr post -url http://localhost:8983/solr/gettingstarted/update a.pdf
----

Automatically detect content types in a folder, and recursively scan it for documents for indexing into `gettingstarted`.

[source,bash]
----
bin/solr post -url http://localhost:8983/solr/gettingstarted/update afolder/
----

Automatically detect content types in a folder, but limit it to PPT and HTML files and index into `gettingstarted`.

[source,bash]
----
bin/solr post -url http://localhost:8983/solr/gettingstarted/update -filetypes ppt,html afolder/
----

=== Indexing to a Password Protected Solr (Basic Auth)

Index a PDF as the user "solr" with password "SolrRocks":

[source,bash]
----
bin/solr post -u solr:SolrRocks -url http://localhost:8983/solr/gettingstarted/update a.pdf
----
